# NBA Players Statistics Correlations EDA (Exploratory Data Analysis)
I have been watching NBA Basketball games since childhood which led to my interest of choosing the overall NBA Players Statistics data. Based on my intuition over the past couple of years watching NBA I see a trending pattern that NBA players who are scoring more in 3-pointers offensive categories are more likely to lead total points and be in teams that make NBA playoffs. Also, is shooting 3 pointers an optimal solution over 2 pointers to make it to playoffs. This report explains these assumptions made and analyzes through data visualization process on 5 years of NBA players statistics data from 2015-2020. The data was collected from basketball-reference.com which is publicly available site and population represents overall NBA Player statistics in offensive shooting category. The categories used for analysis include player’s position, team, games played, minutes played, 3 pointers, 2 pointers, total points, and fields goals per game. 
The following are three hypotheses that are analyzed using data visualization process:
1.	To analyze correlations between each shooting category so that it helps to explore which NBA players position are more likely to score points in 3 pointers category than 2 pointers per game vice-versa.
2.	It is widely accepted among NBA fans and based on intuition that NBA players who have played most games and minutes have better chances of making playoffs. 
3.	NBA players who are the top 10 leading scorers in the average three and two points per game shooting category have more chances of being on a team that makes to the playoffs.
